---
title: Work Journal 04
date: 2017-03-12 19:55:00
Category: Work journal
Tags: notes
author: Felix Raimundo
---

Well this week did no go exactly as planned in a few ways:

- No entries in the work journal
- No sport (at all)
- Was tired all week.
- Did not finish the reinforcemnt learning class.
- Did not shape up on algorithms as expected.

On the bright side I did manage to get a few things done:

- Finished `The Grid`
- Almost finished Elon Musk's bio
- Watched the videos of class 2 and 3 of bionfinformaics (and half of class 4).
- Watched the andrew video about nuts and bolts of deep learning
- Finished Part 1 of the deep learning book (skipped a few parts, but I already
  had the maths background, except for the manifolds part).
- Ate kinda healthily.
- Did the haskell I planned on doing.

The reason may be that I did not really try to stick to the plans, I also was very
tired for unkown reasons which did not help with being able to focus and gave me a
pretty bad mood (and thus lowered my motivation for working).

# Weekend.

Most of the work (if not all), was done this weekend at the library.

## Reinforcement learning

I watched video 6 of the RL class.

This mostly dealt with function approxiamtion mecanisms, in order to avoid
storing all the states (and actions), while also helping to generalize over unknown
states and action.

Most of the MDP methods on policy iteration and policy evaluations stayed correct,
the only modification was done on how to train the function approximation, the rest
of the mechanics on how to improve the policy  are the same.

# Plan for next week (no weekend)

- Finish the Reinforcement learning videos (ideally one a day).
- Finish Elon Musk's bio
- Read 7 lessons in physics
- Go back to the gym twice.
- Write and publish a (probably poor) summary of the pros and cons of the DL frameworks.

# Plan for next weekend

- Do the three `getting started` competitions on kaggle, in order to get my hands a bit
  dirty, this is more of a data science than machine learning problem, but will
  at least get me some experience (as I lack experience more than anything).
