---
title: Work Journal 07
date: 2017-03-25 00:37:00
Category: Work journal
Tags: notes
author: Felix Raimundo
---

# Small research en deep learning frameworks

## keras

Seems to be the winning solution in python.

A large base (and growing) is using it, both in industry and academia.

Francois cholet seems like a guy trying to be as inclusive as possible, which tranalte into an easy framework.

Easy to use and well documented with a very active dev community.

## lasagana

sits on top of theano, tries to do what keras is doing, but less people on it.

## torch

Easy to use for creating arbitrary networks, nngraph is also a good plus

nice ressources in the nando de freitas class.

good support with pytorch thanks to facebook

## caffe

Created at berkeley, in the berkeley vision and learning center, published in 2012.

Seems to be mostly image oriented.

models and optimization defined in config, not code.

## TensorFlow

Pretty low level.

is a work of goodfellow who also worked on theano, apparently optimised for GCE.

felt harder to use than keras, but is probably more efficient when fine tuned.

Large user base and active dev community

## conclusion

I will try to get things up and running whith keras, this should not be an issue for interviews
as it is in python and most companies are not religious about the framework they use, at least not in interviews.

I'll probably take a look at pytorch after working on keras for a bit.


# Reinforcement learning

Finaly done with david silver's class.

Lecture 8 introduced planning, my memory is a bit fuzzy on that I should get back to it

Lecture 9 talked about exploration exploitation and the good aproches to solve it (vanishing e and UCB on bandits) and how we can solve
it using bayesian approach and an MDP.

lecture 10 talked about using RL in games, and introduced the ways to use tree search in MDPs for finding minmaxs (TD leaf, TD root, TDstrap)

# Les ennemis de l'emploi

Pretty good book about unemployenment and the policies to curb it (if needed), presented some nice points and
paradoxes, the last 4 pages are a good summary n case I want to come back to it.

The authors took a statistically rigourous approach to the problem, this was rather fun as they insisted a lot
on how most studies had poor quality of evaluations (in particular no test population, and measured effect and not relative effect)
