---
title: Work Journal 08
date: 2017-04-08 00:37:00
Category: Work journal
Tags: notes, genomics, bioinformatics, hospitals
author: Felix Raimundo
---

# Paper report: Large scale machine learning for metagenomics sequence classification

[Source to the paper](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/article-lookup/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btv683)

This paper was written in parts by Jean Philippe vert in which I am currently
interested (I looked up who does fun genomics research in the Paris area and
only his name came up).

Metagenomics is the study of a large set of raw reads from an environment
which contains different species.  
There are two main applications: *taxonomic profling* (abundance of various
species in the sample) and *taxonomic binning* (labelling of each read to a
specific species).

This article focuses on taxonomic binning using supervised learning, mostly
with linear methods (here a MSE is used, so a simple linear classifier instead
of an SVM).

This also presents a *rank-flexible* approach which allows to decide to
which rank of the taxonomy the prediction will be bound.

Here the rank flexible approach is used on top of Vowpal Wabbit software, the
main benchmark used here is the Kraken software, also based on a k-mers approach
but not based on statistical methods.

The VW-flex approach manages to achieve performances close to Kraken on
uncorrupted data sets, and is also as robust on corrupted data (despite not
being trained for it), but is still beaten in both cases by Kraken.

Where VW-flex is more useful is on the `novel lineage` task, where it is
asked to identify new species that are close to the ones it has already been
trained on. Its recall is 4 times higher than Kraken (but also gets more
wrong predictions).

Overall the k-mer methods manage to achieve performances close to those
achieved by alignment methods, which is not absurd as it works on less information
than them (mostly because the feature space would become unmanagable as it is
4^k, and that kmers are currently attached to a 2^32 hashtable).

# Book report: L'hopital

[Reference to the book](https://www.puf.com/content/L_h%C3%B4pital)

This book is a small presentation of the structure of the French hospitals
(and private clinics, both non profit and for profit).

It mostly deals with the consequences of the `Hopital, Patient, Sante et Territoire`
2009 law, and how it lead to the current structure of the French hospital.

In summary the director of the local `Agence Regionale de Sante` has most of the
decisional power on the hospital, shared with the `Conseil Medical d'Etablissement`
and the director is left with little decision power, he is mostly here to apply
the decisions of the Minister of Health.  
An important point is also that he is only allowed to decide how the money
is allocated but not to sign the checks (this is the prerogative of the accountant
who works for the French Treasury), thus hospitals tend to be late with bills
even though they do pay them.

This book also focused a lot on the `Groupe Homogene de Malade`, which is a new
classification of patient (created by the author of the book) in order to have
a better measurement of the operations of hospitals, cost per operation,
frequency of operations and resource distribution.

He  also mentioned the dire need for better information systems inside hospitals
and expressed the idea that for now a global (but shaky) information system
is much more needed than a fancy but local one.  
He also mentionned the current lack of engineers and other technical professions
in hospitals.

Current hospital software mostly deal with inventory and production tracking,
but not with patients and the health process (i.e. following a patient through
different departments, billing, setting up appointments etc...)

Hospitals also suffer from the fact that they are: a company, a state company
and a health service, thus having very little power over how they manage their
resources, salary and hirings.

# RobotS

I finaly took the time to publish RobotS on [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/RobotS),
this was a long due task, but better late than never, right ?

I talked a little with Samuel at the Paris Rust meetup and realized that there
still wasn't a nice solution for typed actors in rust. Apparently akka improved
its design for akka-typed, which makes me want to take a look at it for
redesigning RobotS types.

It should also use tokio-rs for its scheduling system, I heard a lot of
good (and when I looked it also seemed very nice) about future-rs too which
could be a nice case study (at least for improving my futures design, even
though I quite like the idea of having them be actors to).

It may also be nice to look at how the actors have a monadic structure to them
in order to take some of the good stuff from Haskell (since I am now a Haskell
developper during the day).
