---
title: Work Journal 02
date: 2017-03-03 00:35:00
Category: Work journal
Tags: notes
author: Felix Raimundo
---

# Blog 2

Hi again !

Today was not a very fruitful day in terms of personal work.

I planned on:

- going to the gym
- setting up my computer with pelican
- do the maths for lecture 8 of deep learning
- do the maths for lecture 2 of reinforcement learning
- freshen up on statistics definitions
- set up pelican on my new computer (in order to publish)

Not much was done though...

I did manage to go to the gym, which is nice, but did not manage to do
much coding after that.

I watched part of lecture 3 on reinforcement learning and freshen up in
stats definitions.

Thus I failed to:

- do maths
- finish lecture 3

The process kinda worked until about 3pm, when unexpedness messed up my
planning and I didn't manage to fall back on my feets (planning wise).

Since tomorrow night is a night out (John Wick II), I don't believe that my super
training program in ML will be well followed, which kinda sucks.
I can nevertheless leave the office late and do some maths before leaving.

Work wise I managed to have a good draft of the blog entry I will post in two
weeks for tweag, and spent some time reading haskell blog posts from tweag and
FP complete in order to familiarize myself with the expected writing style.
I found it odd that most haskell related blog posts are extremely wordy and
convoluted, which is far different from what I am generaly used to (much shorter
and to the point).
